Hi everyone, welcome to this week's episode of the Grand Prixquel Pod.
This week we saw the conclusion of three championships: Formula Winter Series, EC3 and EC4 Winter,
as well as F1 Academy, kicking off in Shanghai.
Our hosts this week are myself, Peter, Alex and Thia.
So let's dive right into it.
The Formula Winter Series concluded this week.
After five rounds, we had our champion, Dries Van Langendonck, who, I mean, he was just crazy impressive and extremely dominant.
And he won 9 out of 15 races, 12 podiums, 9 poles.
It was like he'd always find a way for himself to be up front.
And I think, for myself, what really impressed me about him was just his amazing racecraft and how smart he was.
For example, at Aragon, he was holding back on the final lap as the front two are fighting, no point to go attack them.
And then he saw a gap and just went for it and took the lead.
And then here's another instance at Portimao where he stalled at the start.
But then in about three racing laps, he went from P24 to P7.
And without the safety cars, I think he could have honestly have won that race.
And recently at Barcelona, he triple grand slammed, won every race, took a pole, led every lap and fastest lap and pretty much won the team's championship for Rodin.
I think it's always crazy to have a driver that's like so incredibly dominant because I don't even think the grid was, it was like not the craziest kind of grid that you'd see in Italian F4 or something.
But it was a very, very solid grid with quite a few drivers that I'd say had a good shot at like, going somewhere.
And, you know, I'm kind of biased in favour of Ary Bansal, but I think he did really, really well considering everything.
But Dries was just on that other level.
And I'm pretty sure that what he mentioned somewhere before and kind of also texted, that he's probably going to follow that Antonelli/Slater route of just winning everything in his path, you know.
I think it'll be really interesting to watch him.
Yeah, and as you mentioned Bansal, I mean, he's no slouch. He's last year's GB4 champion and he just had some horrific luck as well, which also made things harder for him.
For example, in the final two weekends, he stalled and got hit recently. He got taken out by another driver the previous week.
So he's just a bit of bad luck.
And even Thomas Bearman had consistent pace. He really showed up in the last two rounds taking podiums, challenging for wins.
No race wins at all, which is. puts asterisk on it, in a way.
But he still had consistent pace and just could be a bit messy at times, which very much kind of slowed his challenge, I feel like.
Yeah, I mean, after, I think it was British F4 last season, I was not rating him as like the next big thing.
So I think he spots pretty clearly beneath Dries.
And, I mean, Ary, I really think he's a good driver.
But GB4 is, in my opinion, not really that, you know, comparable to just easily make a step up and fight for such a championship with such more experienced throws.
Because I do think that if you come from British F4, you have quite the bigger advantage than if you come from GB4.
So I think against, let's say, normal guys, Ary Bansal did really good.
And we have to keep in mind that Dries is also with McLaren.
He probably gets loads of support there, which other drivers do not have.
He's done a lot of testing as well, which always helps, but the raw pace is there.
To expand on Bansal, he is doing Italian F4 this year, so that will be very interesting to see.
So is Bearman as well, Italian F4 with VAR, following in the steps of brother Ollie doing it with VAR.
Other than that, I mean, what do we think of Dries’ teammates, Ethan Lennon and Alfie Slater?
I feel like Lennon surprised me quite a bit in the wet.
I was not expecting this performance from him.
And I think he was a bit unknown.
He did do Ginetta Juniors last year, but he wasn't very known going into the series.
And he was quite solid.
Of course, very behind teammate Dries, but him and Alfie Slater were at a quite similar level.
I mean, so much so that they crashed into each other in race two at Barcelona.
I mean, Thomas and Alfie just really had that battle of the younger brothers going on to me.
So I think it was really funny to see them both.
And I think both of them should be able to, you know, take advantage of the fact that they come from a racing family who knows how to, you know, prepare, how to go into such a season with, you know, preparation.
What do you need for it?
Like, they probably also get like, a few tips from their brothers.
And both their brothers are incredibly good.
I mean, Ollie Bearman is P5 in F1 right now.
And we all know how good Freddie Slater is.
I mean, they're kind of nepo babies because, like, if you have the name Bearman on your car, obviously people are going to, like, expect a few more things from you.
Oh, yeah, definitely.
And, yeah, Slater was kind of, you know, the weakest of the three Rodins, I would say.
He's almost behind the other two.
I mean, he had a big gap between Dries and the other two.
But then Lennon was ahead of Slater.
So it sets up British F4;
I mean, we have both of them doing British F4 this year.
So it's very much a thing we're going to have to see.
And I feel like I very much enjoyed the series overall.
It was extremely fun racing, especially Aragon.
What a track.
I mean, we had consistent battles for the lead.
It was extremely enjoyable to watch.
If you haven't watched it, I thoroughly recommend you go find the race and rewatch it because they are just so much fun.
So I feel like we need to give a shout out to the female drivers in the series.
We had quite a few.
I was particularly impressed by Chiara Bättig.
Even though she came second in that, she podiumed, that race does have a bit of an asterisk due to the weather chaos.
What really impressed me about her was the fact she was fighting for points.
She was very close to scoring quite a few points, especially at Aragon.
She was right up there with the male drivers, fighting with them.
And it was really impressive to me to see her race craft.
She finished P10.
She came a bit on the unlucky end of things.
But overall, she was very impressive.
Finished P17 in the end.
And I'm excited for her,
I believe British F4 campaign this year.
I thought we had, obviously, quite a few female drivers, which I think is, once again, really nice to see them, you know, do their first things.
I think it's always kind of sad to see them only do a handful of rounds because it's really difficult to join in when you're joining in like round three.
And everyone else has more experience, as we've seen with Caitlyn McDaniel, who seemed to not, you know, have as much of an easy time as drivers who may be the whole season and the preseason testings and stuff.
But I still want to point out that I was really hopeful for Zoe Florescu, who, in my opinion, I mean, she finished around like the 20 area, which is, in my opinion, for her debut in single seaters,
i's really not bad.
And I look into standings and I just think really interesting how many women we have.
And, you know, I wish we would have seen more do full season like Chiara Bättig and Ginevra Panzeri, because I think that if we had seen that, we would have also seen more of them make proper like step up in the series itself.
As we've seen with, I feel like, Chiara Bättig, who's like last round was a lot better than her first round, because you improve with more time on the track, you know?
Yeah, definitely.
And like one final draw we've not talked about, who I want to mention, is Rocco Coronel.
He was the one, in the first weekend especially, he was the one who was able to run the closest to Dries.
He only contested the first three rounds, but he had brilliant race craft.
He would have a great defense work, work his way up through the field.
His main weak point was qualifying, but his wise was able to, he even took a win over Dries in the wet,
which was extremely impressive.
One last driver that I want to point out for me is Arjen Kräling, the German driver, who I'm obviously a bit biased for,
because I saw him give his debut in British F4 last season.
And since then, it's obviously been on my mind to support him.
I think he really, I think if you look at standings, it's too funny how much of a step up he made, because when he won his first race in, where was it?
In Ricardo Tormo.
After that, the next race, he didn't score points, but after that, he just scored points, five races after each other.
And it's like, really good run actually, which I think is really interesting, because it just looks like that win really took, you know,
kind of, maybe took pressure off his shoulders, or maybe it did more pressure.
But it helped him, because it really looks funny, because before his win, he only scored points in the very first race, where he finished P6.
And he didn't score any points for seven races, I think.
And then he just, after, you know, one other, when he didn't finish, he just finished P7, P4, P7, P8, P5, which is really solid, I think.
So, of course, we had Rocco Coronel leaving Formula Winter Series to go compete in the Spanish F4 / EC4 Winter Series,
which, again, another brilliant F4 series.
And, like, the title was being decided in the most crazy way possible.
It is the most kind of F4 thing to ever happen, with it being based on penalties, 30-second penalties, to be more specific.
I love Formula 4 Series.
It was quite a short series, with only three rounds, nine races, but it was an extremely enjoyable series to watch.
I feel like the racing was extremely fun to watch, and we had our champion, Noah Monterio, who had improved a lot from last season,
having been P9 in this championship last year and P8 in Spanish F4 last year.
So, we're very much setting himself up as a potential title challenger in Spanish F4 later this year.
We're looking at a really solid grid, and it's, again, I'm very excited for the main series,
because, as you said, it was a very short season.
And, sadly, that means that we can't see everyone, kind of, you know, make the grounds.
And one bad weekend means the whole thing is basically ruined.
And, obviously, I'm looking at the female drivers again.
Luna Fluxa, is it?
Do you pronounce it like that?
I think so.
You do.
In any way, she got podium in the second race, which was really solid, scored some more points.
I felt like the second track really did not really work out for her.
Like, it seems really difficult for her.
And the problem is, if you only have three race weekends, and you don't really get into the mindset on one of them,
I mean, the whole season is kind of thrown away.
Yeah, and for her, this is her first ever F4 championship and race she's ever done.
It's a massive learning curve, and she did improve a bit in Aragon.
She scored points in all three races in the final round, so it is maybe setting up something more in the main series,
because she has proven she does have the pace, which is just now keeping it consistent.
Yeah, I mean, if she goes back to Jarama, and, you know, she does it again, and she gets that experience,
I think even then, she'd be able to, you know, go for points and stuff there, but sadly not in this challenge.
But overall, really solid season.
As for other female drivers, we had Maria Germano Neto.
I thought it was quite interesting, because I haven't really heard of her before this season,
but I talked to people and a lot of what I've heard was like,
“she has great race craft”, and I think we saw that when, in one race, she went from like P20 or something to P11.
But she really needs to work on her qualifying, because over one lap, she's simply not on that speed where she needs to be.
But her race craft really, really looked pretty good, and she did some really solid overtakes, from what I remember seeing.
Same to Zoe Florescu, who did not quite manage to get so close to the points, but she still did very, very solid.
And I think she's, was she announced, or she's still rumored to also go to Spanish F4,
because I think all three of them could, you know, really improve.
And it all being their debut season, I think we could see some proper improvements,
and we could see quite some battles for who's the best female driver on track,
but also proving that they can race and they can be on the pace with the boys.
Definitely, and I feel like we need to also talk about some of the other guys in the field.
Rocco Coronel, again, he was quite unlucky at times, but he was very much another driver who's all or nothing.
He'd be getting podiums, or he'd be retired or out of the race.
Sometimes he'd be getting overaggressive, or sometimes he'd just be a bit unlucky.
But I feel like he still has the pace to challenge for the title in the main season.
It's more about now just putting it all together.
Yeah, I feel like he had the same problem as Luna, which, you know, is a bit disappointing to,
as I've said with Luna, kind of, you know, not manage it on that one circuit where it really matters.
But I expect him to do incredibly well in, you know, the main series.
What is he doing again?
Spanish F4.
Yeah, I expect him to do well, because then, you know, he has that experience of the track now.
He knows what he did wrong, he can't prepare, I think.
And even if one of the weekends doesn't work out as well, I think he should be able to, you know, do it pretty fine.
Yeah, and again, it's just coming down to experience, just even the runner-up, Vivek Kanthan, again, did a full season last year and improved a lot, which just helped him a lot.
So I'm sure with all the others, once they get that experience, which they get a lot of by doing this winter championship, they'll be able to contend in the main series.
I always think, uh, winter series are really interesting, because it really gives a kind of an idea of what to expect for the main series, while also being kind of interesting.
Because a lot of drivers do actually make their debuts here, because it's a great way to, you know, do a series and be able to really make, I mean, no one wants to make mistakes, but we all know mistakes will happen.
And I feel like you see them try out more stupid stuff around here, because they know you can try something which is like, in the main series, you'd think, “hey, maybe I shouldn't try that, because maybe it won't work out.”
But, you know, I feel like here's the opportunity to really throw out stuff, because, you know, even if you maybe don't win the championship, it'll be fine.
And it's really good to see them be able to gain that experience and make their first impressions.
Yeah, so alongside the EC4 Winter, we also had the EC3 championship Winter Series, which exact same calendar, it’s very much the parent series in a way.
Again, extremely fun racing. Even though it is at the Formula Regional level, it is a different car. And these cars were so much fun to watch them race. And they race really well because they could actually overtake each other while they're being stuck in the dirty air for laps on end.
It's again, I feel like I would have loved to see this championship, you know, go on longer. But simultaneously, I think it would probably be boring at some point if we did this even longer.
So you get a rerun added with the main EC3 championship, pretty much the same drivers are contesting both.
So we had our champion, Keanu Al-Azhari , who, he won the title on consistency. He was just extremely consistent, getting podiums, wins. And fun fact, he's the first Alpine junior to win a title since Abbi Pulling, in 2024.
I think he's overall pretty interesting to watch. Like he's not one of the drivers like what we've had already with Dries, who like stands out as being clearly the future biggest talent.
But I think he's really lining himself up for a more quiet, but still super interesting career with being runner up in F4 Spanish championship in 2024, you know, doing pretty solid in GB3 in 2025 now winning. He's doing Euro Cup 3 this season, right?
Yup. I think if he lines himself. Wait a minute, mate. Oh my God, it's Cody again. Oh, he loves cars. He just wanted to play with cars.
What I wanted to say is, I think he could really line himself up to be one driver would be interesting to watch for the Eurocup 3 season. Even if he doesn't win, he's lining himself up like wide approach, quite a season, where at some point, you will see him maybe even going to a F3 or F2. And you look back and you think, he's a solid contender.
Yeah, he doesn't scream, you know, title winner, but he's consistent. He's able to set himself in the points and stay there. And that is so important in this feeder series. And he does have that F1 Academy support as well.
Didn't know he drives in F1 Academy.
No, no, Alpine, yes.
I know, I know. I just confused for a hot three seconds and it's like, what?
He's, you know, he's actually turning into Nina Gademen in disguise.
Great. We're talking about a woman, I would point out what I thought was kind of interesting, which is Bianca Bustamante did not end last.
And I'm meaning this in not a mean way because I know, like, people are very torn about her.
But even though I don't like rate her highly, I think it's interesting to see her best finish is P30, which is not even that bad, really.
And I think what's important about her is for me personally, I know people, you know, don't necessarily really like her.
But I think just from a driver kind of perspective, just from in the car, I think it's interesting to see that she's not that far off from, you know, competing for points and stuff.
I think that probably just comes down to experience because she pretty much only pushed ahead of rookies.
She has a lot of experience compared to all of the others.
My point, what I'm trying to say here is that. I think if Bianca Bustamante, who I just generally do not think like the craziest driver ever, but I think there's so many female drivers better than her, so many female drivers like Luna Fluxa, like Chiara Bättig, already proving themselves to be, you know, kind of fast.
And you always hear, oh, they can do F4, but where can they go?
If we put them next to someone like Bianca Bustamante, and I know I kind of agree.
Yes, she has a lot of experience, but I also think that in comparison, it proves to me that she's not so incredibly, absolutely, completely off pace that, you know, there's no way a woman can race.
Definitely an improvement from her GB3 season, which was very underwhelming.
So maybe as long as she just stays, and she's with a solid team in Palou Motorsport.
You can't ever escape Alex Paloiu, it feels like.
But as long as she stays solid, you know, maybe she can set herself up for something.
And she is doing those rookie test sessions in the Formula E with Cupra Kiro, who have one of the lineups of all the time with Bianca Bustamante and Cian Shields.
Does anyone want to point out, um…
Yeah, um, Alex Powell, if you know Robin, you know she is our resident Alex Powell enthusiast.
Unfortunately, she was unable to join us this episode, but she's recorded a little bit for you guys, talking all since Alex Powell.
Uh, hey everyone, Robin here.
Uh, unfortunately I couldn't make it for today's episode, but if you know me, you know I have a lot to say about Alex Powell.
Um, overall I do want to say that despite us finishing in the championship lower than we did in Formula Regional Middle East, I'd say this was a pretty positive campaign.
I mean, we finished in P5 versus the P4 that we finished in the Middle East.
But if you look at, like, the season overall, obviously four rounds versus three rounds, like, it's not that big of a difference.
But I think in terms of consistency, first of all, Alex was very consistent over the season.
Uh, he had two P3 finishes, three P4 finishes, and three P6s.
Um, and obviously there was, you know, the stall in the very first race.
But other than that, like, it's been pretty positive.
Especially, like, among his teammates, among the Campos drivers, um, to be the second best Campos driver behind Tarnvanichkull, um, to beat the second best Campos driver, uh, against a driver who already has a year of Eurocup 3 experience.
A driver who has a year of GB3 experience in Heuzenroeder, and a driver who came from Spanish F4 and has already raced these circuits.
Alex has not driven any of these circuits.
He's not driven Poitimao, he's not driven Jarama, he's not driven Aragon.
So, I'd say this is a pretty decent season performance.
And obviously, you know, both Strauven and Heuzenroeder had a bit of bad luck.
And, you know, in a three-race, three-round championship, like, one weekend of bad luck really, really affects you.
Um, so, I think this has been pretty positive.
I think I'm looking forward to the main campaign because when it comes to the main Eurocup 3 season, Alex does actually have experience on these tracks.
He's raced Paul Ricard before he's raced Monza, he's raced Imola, he's raced Barcelona.
And Poitimao is coming, like, they're racing at Poitimao again.
Uh, I think, obviously, no one's raced the Madring yet.
And we don't even know if they're going to race the Madring yet.
Uh, Silverstone and the Hungaroring should be interesting as well.
Um, a little bit of math that I did, and my math might be wronged, but had Alex not lost out on the win in Jarama due to that five-second penalty, he would have finished the championship in P2.
Because, um, he finished the race after the penalty in P6.
So, he scored eight points.
And, obviously, it's 25 points for a win.
So, that means he lost out on 17 points by losing out on that win.
And, if he adds 17 points onto his, like, end of season total, he ends up with 91 points.
And, Egozi finished the season on 92.
However, Egozi, he inherited the win from Alex when Alex got penalized.
So, if Alex didn't get penalized, and, obviously, Egozi wouldn't have inherited the win, so he would have had less than 92 points.
Which would put Alex in P2 in the championship.
Which kind of sucks, but we live and we learn.
And, obviously, we'll improve for the main campaign.
And, yeah, we finished runner-up in the rookie championship behind René Lammers.
I think we were eight points behind him.
But, yeah, overall, it's been a pretty consistent season.
And, I'm looking forward to the main Eurocup 3 campaign.
Thank you.
We can go back to everyone else now.
So, we had other drivers.
We had James Egozi as well, who finished.
He had, he was a title challenger.
And, he had more wins than Al-Azhari with his double amount of wins.
But, he had two retirements.
A DNS.
He ended up 53 points behind, which really points to Keanu's consistency.
But, despite all of this, he still managed to stay runner-up in the championship.
And, we also had Thomas Strauven, who, I mean, everyone, I think, going into the season, he was very much a title-favorite.
But, again, it's just, especially when the championship is so short, with only nine races.
One bad weekend, and that throws away your entire series- season, I mean.
Because, he was extremely dominant last year in Spanish F4.
But, when it comes to the main campaign, the likes of Strauven is certainly going to be up there.
Also, Alex Powell, I think.
I think, as with Strauven, I think he should have, kind of, an advantage when we talk about the tracks and the circuits.
Because, you know, it did not necessarily help him here, but we only did three circuits.
But, overall, I think he should have an advantage over those drivers that, you know, do not know these circuits.
That do not have this experience in Spanish racing.
Because, what I feel like is that the series that really are located in Spain, they are kind of similar to each other.
And, if you have the experience, the vibes, you get into there.
You know what to do.
You know, I think it really helps.
I think, overall, Powell should be someone who has, you know, more experience going maybe wheel to wheel.
You know, he did two seasons of F4.
You know, he did the Formula Regional Middle East Championship.
He's someone who has a lot of experience with who I think should do it.
But, Strauven, we got that advantage of experience over him.
Speaking of experience, I feel like Kasper Sztuka was a bit underwhelming.
Given how much more experience he has compared to everyone else.
I mean, he didn't really have any notable races I can think of or any notable finishes.
And, of course, he is an Italian F4 champion, albeit from 2023.
Wasn't Kasper Sztuka in F3 at some point?
Or am I making s*** up?
No, he did F3 as well.
Yeah, like, I think he should have experience, but…
Maybe it's because of the team he was with.
Not exactly the best team, but…
Again, it's very much what you would expect from someone with his experience.
He didn't have a single points finish.
Oh.
Maybe partly down to the team, but with someone who's been in F3 as well.
You do expect more.
And we also had René Lammers, who, again, like Rocco Coronel in the EC4 winter, was all or nothing with podiums.
Basically, podiums, a P4, and then no points finishers.
Which, you know, maybe a confident experience.
But despite this, he did win the rookie championship, but…
So, again, it's probably just an experience thing, which, as you've said before, these winter championships are a great way just to get more experience.
I think we should go on to F1 Academy, which I was very, very excited about.
All my comments, all the comments that we have made, are from me.
And I went through all the races to have exact data on every single driver and to figure out exactly what happened to every single driver.
Just in case no one saw the overcase that Ava Dobson did.
I think it's very important to talk about this.
So, I felt that, like, Natalia Granada, she was great on debut, especially for somebody who had only done sports cars and endurance.
And getting a podium in race one was great.
And it was just unfortunate that she had that collision in race two.
Yeah, I think it was kind of a rookie mistake.
I watched the scene again and again.
And it was difficult because she should have braked.
But it was probably just ended with someone going, driving into her back.
Because she was in a kind of difficult situation.
Like, she was already on the outside.
In front of her, there's, I think it was Ferreira.
On the side of her, there was someone else.
And she just kind of went into Ferreira.
And it was a bit unfortunate.
But honestly, it's just something, I think, that can happen in your second ever Formula 4 race.
Yeah, I mean, she very much did in the sprint.
And qualifying P7 on debut is impressive.
And then, you know, she held it off the line and just stayed consistent.
In the sprint race especially.
So that's really all one can do.
And it had to do with the safety car, restarting still was still solid.
I think it was really strong of her to keep so close to Gademan.
Who, with all due respect, should, you know, have driven away from her with years more of that F4 experience.
And in her second F1 Academy year.
And even Felbermayr, who had an absolutely great weekend overall, I think.
And who managed to overtake the people behind her.
Did not quite manage to get her.
Which I think just shows that her speed, especially in the sprint, was really good.
Especially after everyone did not expect her to do well.
I think I briefly want to mention Alba Larson.
Because she had a great qualifying.
But then, the races did not go her way at all.
And I feel like she's still making these rookie mistakes.
Which you really shouldn’t be making going into her second season.
And we know she's fast.
But ultimately, she's in her second season.
And with the F1 Academy calendar being so short.
And having so few races, as it does.
Because we now know that, unfortunately, due to the conflict in the Middle East.
Where we hope everyone is staying safe.
The Saturday round has officially been cancelled.
So, we're only down to 12 races.
So, having a poor weekend is ever so costly.
If you want to challenge for the title.
And for Larson, I mean, she got front wing damage in the sprint race.
And then, I mean, what do we think of that safety car?
If we start mistaking the second race.
I think it was just something that should not have happened.
And I saw other people already point out that even last season.
She struggled with, you know, restarting on the safety car.
And I think her whole thing is just like, I wasn't sure if the problem that she had there was that she, you know, thought that she was doing it good.
And, you know, made a small mistake.
Or if the problem was that she had this huge, huge, you know, weight on her shoulders.
Because she's now backed by Ferrari.
And people are looking at her.
She's like, surprisingly enough, she's the title favorite for a lot of people.
Even though, with all due respect, after last season, it did not, you know, she was not the highest rookie.
She's not the highest of the returning rookies.
And she's, I'm sorry, but I think, I think she can be in the title fight.
But I think the title fight is more between other drivers who have more experience, who have more wins than podiums already.
And so I think it's quite interesting, the huge weight on her shoulders.
And I think it could have negatively impacted her.
Because it just seemed to me that she was trying to go fast.
Because maybe she was afraid of, you know, losing that win.
Because it's always s*** to lose a win.
And you don't want it to happen, especially if you have Felbermayer and Palmowski behind you.
Yeah, and speaking of Palmowski, I mean, she's incredibly dominant in qualifying winning pole by four tenths.
And in the sprint, the main thing is, I feel like, when you want to be a title challenger, is just to stay out of trouble.
Which Larson did not do, but Palmowski did.
And she brought it home in P5 in the end.
But it's just more about just inheriting positions and keeping it clean.
That is the main.
And we saw overtaking was quite hard.
Yeah, I saw someone point out and call it that from what we saw from Palmowski was that quiet confidence,
especially when she overtook, I think it was Lisa Billard who fell kind of back at some point.
And who she pretty easily overtook.
And the commentators in Germany called her kind of, you know, a bit radical, a bit aggressive.
But she stayed out of trouble.
And she did great because she inherited positions from what Alba Larson pretty much threw away in both races.
So I think it was really solid of her.
I think we need to admit that the start in the feature race just did not, you know, work out perfectly for her.
But she still kept it up pretty strong after that.
Should have, could have maybe done more.
But what I would point out mainly is Emma Felbermayr, who, in my opinion, was by far the strongest driver this weekend.
She did P3 in qualifying.
She was by far the best Rodin.
With Ella Lloyd qualifying P10 and Ella Stephens qualifying P11.
And Ella Lloyd is kind of considered the biggest title favorite just from, you know, stats.
Because she has these British F4 podiums.
She has, like, F1 Academy wins the podiums from last season.
She was the ice rookie.
But Felbermayr, she really, really outraced her this weekend.
And the Rodin did not seem to get alive for both allies.
But for Emma, it sure as hell did.
Because P3 was really, really solid in the sprint race.
She was, like, pretty much the only one in the front who did any big overtakes.
And, I mean, she did it on, I think it was Ferreira and Westcott.
Which, you know, both drivers that I think are less experienced.
And, you know, I rate less than her.
But still, on a circuit like Shanghai, where overtaking in F4 cars is difficult.
It's a great move.
And in the feature race, she won.
She was consistently very, very close to Alba Larson.
But Alba had a really great start.
Until the point where Alba made a mistake.
Which, you know, Emma just did not make.
And albeit Alisha really was close to her right up until the finish line.
She held her position.
And she's leading the challenge right now.
Simply because she, the whole weekend long, I did not see her make a single mistake.
She was, she did everything she could.
And she made every point, in my opinion, that she could have made.
So I think she was, for me, by far the biggest, you know, winner this weekend.
And even last season, I felt like people really underrated her.
And I think everyone talked about, it's going to be a championship fight between Ella Lloyd, Alisha Palmowski, and Alba Larson.
But I think, if we add Alba Larson, we also have to consider Emma Felbermayr.
Because I think, if we really talk about the levels of the drivers.
I think Ella Lloyd and Alisha Palmowski are pretty evenly matched up.
And Alba Larsson and Emma Felbermayrare also pretty evenly matched up.
If we look back at last season, Emma Felbermayr, technically she won twice, but one time was disqualified.
But other than that, she kind of struggled with consistency.
While Alba Larson didn't manage the podium, but it was better consistency.
So they were really close, in my opinion.
I think for Gademan, I'm not sure what to think about her.
Because this was like her fourth reverse pull.
So P8 in the main qualifying.
And then taking pull in the reverse good race.
Which is, I mean, P8 is alright.
But if your teammate qualifies P2, can you really be happy about that?
I mean, she won the sprint race.
And she was kind of solid in the feature race.
Doing some overtakes and keeping L.A Lloyd behind her.
But I was not as convinced by her as I had hoped to be convinced by her.
So we already talked about also.
Ella Lloyd, I think, was the big let down from what people expected of her.
Because, you know, she is really the highest rookie from last season.
And I also expected her to do better.
But in Shanghai, Rodin also struggled last season.
But P10 was quite, you know, below what I expected of her.
She managed to make up some positions.
But that mainly against less experienced drivers.
And she failed to overtake Gademan.
Who, as we talked about, only P8 in full finals.
It's not the best.
I think Rachel Robertson, she had some great battles with Ava Dobson in the sprint.
And also in the main base as well.
She made her way up.
And it was just very unfortunate that she had that mistake passing into She-Way.
But it could have been better overall as well.
I think I really agree with Robertson and Ava Dobson.
Because both of them are at Hitech, right?
Yeah.
And I think it's pretty crazy to see last year.
Hitech pretty much struggled to score a point.
Like, the whole season through.
This year.
You know, Ava qualified.
I think it was P9.
You know, Rachel, who's not quite, you know, in the top ten.
I think she was like P12 or P13.
Which is still fine.
But both did really, really well in the races.
I think Dobson finished P9 or P10 or something in the sprint.
And P10 in the main race.
It's really, really solid.
And more importantly, beside what you mentioned with the crash into She-Way.
Which was, it did not look like an intentional mistake to me.
Beside that, she, Dobson, Bruce, even Kosterman.
They all kept it pretty clean in the midfield.
And I think that's a really, really great sign.
Because Dobson also raced pretty hard against Ella Lloyd.
Who, you know, I expected to obviously be able to take it pretty fast.
Just with her experience and speed and stuff.
And Ava being in the Hitech.
But it seems to me that both the drivers are an improvement.
And the team has made the step up.
And it's great to see another team that will most likely be able to finish on points.
Quite a few times.
And maybe take points from some drivers.
Yeah.
Especially as like as in for Hitech being in their second year.
And I didn't really have much expectations for them last year.
That it was great to see that they were actually battling and fighting for points.
Yeah.
Who else do we have?
We have Bruce.
I think qualifying was kind of disappointing.
Especially considering how quick she was in the preseason testings.
But as we've already mentioned, she kept it pretty clean with the other drivers.
Who else do we have?
Kosterman was generally, to me, a bit disappointing.
Because, like, even Gademan still got PA'd.
She was a bit unlucky in the feature race to be hit by Jade Jacquet.
Generally, in a sprint race, she had quite the gap up front.
And couldn't really manage to stay on the same pace as the rest of the grid.
So, that was kind of, you know, not the greatest thing.
And ART is, I think, kind of the backmarker team this year.
With Kaylee Countryman, Jade Jacquet, and Lisa BIllard.
Lisa did pretty well in the qualifying.
I think she was P6, was it?
But her start in the sprint race, where she was P3.
Or was she P7?
I don't know.
The point is, her start in the sprint race, where she was, like, in the top three, was sadly really slow.
And she lost a lot of positions.
She still went out with some points.
But I think she could have done more if the car was better.
I feel like, overall, I found the racing a bit disappointing.
Maybe it’s just down to the circuit.
Hopefully, I mean, we're going to Silverstone.
That's going to be fun.
We know how great a circuit that is.
I love Silverstone.
Let's do Silverstone.
Because that track is great for F4 cars.
Replace Jeddah with Monza.
Yes.
Do it for me, please.
Anyways, I want to mention two last drivers before we kind of stray off topic.
Because I also wanted to mention Matilda Paatz, who's with Prema, but sadly had gearbox issues.
Which meant that she was really, really, probably, I think she was, like, one last or second last or something.
And in the sprint race, she had to get a new wing.
But after that, it seemed to me that she really picked up the pace.
And she had the highest time.
And I think, overall, it was kind of sad.
Because she was involved in some great battles, especially in the future race.
And she could have done so much more if the issue in qualifying hadn't had happened.
And, last but not least, Ella Stevens for Rodin was a bit of a disappointing.
A bit of a disappointment for me, also.
Because she was one of those rookies for everyone kind of was interested in.
And, I mean, it's one of her first ever single-seater race weekends.
Roden wasn't doing too well either.
So, I think she'll be able to make a step up throughout the season.
What I wanted to mention, if we talk about F1 Academy in general,
what I thought about was last season.
They did mid-season tests in Zandvoort.
And that was, like, a few weeks before the F1 Grand Prix weekend at Zandvoort.
And the same weekend, British F4 was in Zandvoort with Caterham Weekend.
And what I'm putting out is, if, you know, we already know the race is cancelled.
And, I'd say it again, I just hope everyone out there is safe.
And that, you know, no one gets hurt.
And we can, you know, go back to doing stupid racing.
Because everyone is happy and no one is getting hurt anymore.
But, just as a possibility for this very small calendar,
they have to bring the cars to Zandvoort.
If they do the mid-season test again, which I'm not actually quite sure of.
But, if they do the mid-season test in Zandvoort again,
I'm just saying, they could maybe, you know, call up Caterham, call up British F4.
Hey, do you maybe have a few minutes in between times so we can also go on track?
Which is very, very biased.
Because I'll probably be there again for British F4.
So, please, guys, do it for me.
I want to see F1 Academy race live.
And, we're going to have a bunch of F1 Academy drivers.
Probably do British F4 in Zandford again, anyways.
Because it's the best, you know, experience you can have for the F1 Academy weekend.
And, last year, we also had Esmee Kosterman do that weekend in preparation for F1 Academy.
And, it helped her.
So, maybe F1 Academy should pick me up on my idea.
I feel like, looking at the championship overall, we, of course, have Emma Felbermayr leading.
But, Palmowski is not too far behind.
She's only about six points behind.
So, very much for me.
And, as a championship favourite, I feel like she still is.
It's more the likes of Ella Lloyd and Alba Larson who are more far behind.
Especially Larson with only four points.
Yeah, I think Ella Lloyd just showed that she had, she must have had some cardinals.
Like, I cannot believe Ella Lloyd made some sort of mistake to qualify in P10.
The Rodin seemed not quite getting to life for her the whole weekend, even in testing.
And, so, I think she will be able to make up the points and get further in front.
Like, everyone has a weekend where they, you know, don't perform.
But, Alba Larson losing points with the mistake, that was rather, you know, worrying to me.
It's not a pace issue.
It's a mistake issue.
And, there may be a weekend where, you know, the pace isn't there, which is…
I mean, again, only one round.
And, we will be getting a more accurate picture once we've had next round, after Canada.
That would be it from us today.
Thank you for listening.
We hope you enjoyed this week's episode.
We'd love to hear your thoughts on the conclusions of these championships.
As well as the Shanghai round of F1 Academy.
Remember, follow us on social media @grandprixquel on all platforms.
Join us next week with there being no feeder series action,
we will explore the karting scene.